Add best practices doc page (#15)
oamg/leapp-repository: docs/best-practices.md

## Avoid running code on a module level

Despite the actors being written in Python, they are loaded beforehand to get all the meta-information from them. To
avoid slow downs during this load phase we ask you to not execute any code that is not absolutely necessary
on a module level. Simple, fast code with no side-effects is acceptable, for example constant definitions.

## Avoid certain global imports

On a module level, try to import only the Python Standard Library modules or modules provided by the Leapp framework.
Import any other module within your function or method. This has to do with possible slow down when loading repositories
by the leapp tool, and also to avoid unnecessary complications for our tests automation which needs to inspect the
actors beforehand.

## Use the snactor tool for development

The snactor tool helps you with creating the base layout of a new Leapp repository, and with creating boilerplates for
the repository artifacts like actors, models, tags, topics, and workflows. It also helps you with debugging as it is
able to execute individual actors.

See the [tutorial on basic usage of snactor](https://leapp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/first-actor.html).

> ## Avoid writing generic actors

Reviewer: I would modify the title as writting of generic actors is important too :) The content is not about generic acotrs, but about generic functionality inside the actor. From this point, the titleis confusing.
- Michal's idea: Move generic functonality to libraries

Author: Changed per my idea :)

improve the respective actors.

## Write unit testable code

Write all the actor’s logic in the actor’s private library in order to be able to write unit tests for each of the
function. It is not currently possible to unit test any method or function in the _actor.py_. Then, ideally, the
`actor.process()` should contain only calling an entry point to the actor's library. To create an actor’s library,
create _libraries_ folder in the actor’s folder and in there create an arbitrarily named python file, e.g. _library.py_.

_myactor/actor.py_:
```python
from leapp.libraries.actor.library import do_the_actor_thingy

class MyActor(Actor):
    # <snip>
    def process(self):
        do_the_actor_thingy(self)
```

_myactor/libraries/library.py_:
```python
def do_the_actor_thingy(actor):
    actor.log.debug("All the actor’s logic shall be outside actor.py")
```

For more about unit testing, see the [tutorial](https://leapp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/unit-testing.html).

## Do not introduce new dependencies

Ideally, actors shouldn't require any additional dependency on top of the dependencies already in the

> [leap](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/blob/master/packaging/leapp.spec) and

Reviewer: typo: `leap` -> `leapp`

Author: Fixed, thx.

## Discover standard library functions

Before implementing functionality for your actor, browse through the available functionality provided by:
- the [Leapp Standard Library](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/leapp/libraries/stdlib/),
- the shared library of your Leapp repository (`<Leapp repository>/libraries` folder).

These libraries contain functions that may satisfy your needs. Using them can save you time, lower code complexity and
help avoiding duplicate code. Improvement proposals for the library functions are welcome.

## Prefer using stdlib functions over shell commands

Sources of external functionality to be used in your actor in order of preference:
1. the [Leapp Standard Library](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/leapp/libraries/stdlib/)
2. the [Python Standard Library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html)
3. shell commands

Examples:
- Prefer `os.symlink` over `/bin/ls -s`
- Prefer `os.remove` over `/bin/rm`

### Shell commands

There might be a valid reason for calling the shell commands instead of standard library functions, e.g. the
`shutil.copyfile` is not able to retain all of the file attributes.

> Full path to shell commands is preferred over executable name only. It is safer as no alias is executed instead of the

Author: Ok. I removed the recommendation to use full path to the shell cmd.

> # Best practices for writing actors

Reviewer 2: I miss some information like "review existing actors/models". We already have many data gathering actors (i.e system facts) that a new actor can use without the necessity to inspecting the system again.

Reviewer: For this purpose we would document everything in the code and generate overview/documentation automatically with every merge.

Author: Thanks, good idea. I have added section suggesting to check out existing actors.

### Follow the Python Coding Guidelines

See the [Python Coding Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md#coding-guidelines).

> ### Avoid running the code on a module level

Author: Mention that some code can be executed on a module level, for example constant definition. Such code should be simple, fast and with no side effects though.

Actors are completely written in Python, however, they are loaded beforehand to get all the meta-information from the actors.
To avoid slow downs we ask actor writers not to execute any code that is not absolutely necessary on a module level.

### Avoid global non Leapp imports

> Avoid importing system or bundled libraries on a module level. This again has to do with slow down, and also to avoid

Author: Explain what is meant by system - not the python standard library but additional non-standard libraries installed on the system.

Author: Done.

unnecessary complications for our tests automation which needs to inspect the actors beforehand.

> ### Use the snactor tool

Reviewer 2: Maybe some link for the first tutorials we have under Read The Docs, talking about how to use snactor tool?

Author: Added.

> Using the snactor tool provides you with all minimally necessary layouts of the repository, and creates

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the snactor tool provides you with all minimally necessary layouts of the repository, and it is able to create
```

Reviewer 2: Just so someone starting will not think that snactor will create something automatically

Author: I have reworded the sentence.

# Best practices for writing actors

> ### Follow the coding guidelines

Author: Right, I guess that's a leftover from the move from RTD. I'll change the level.

> ### Follow the coding guidelines

Author: Done.

avoid slow downs during this load phase we ask actor writers not to execute any code that is not absolutely necessary
on a module level. Simple, fast code with no side-effects is acceptable, for example constant definitions.

### Avoid global non-Leapp imports

On a module level, try to import only the Python Standard Library modules or modules provided by the Leapp framework.
Import any other module within your function or method. This has to do with possible slow down when loading repositories
by the leapp tool, and also to avoid unnecessary complications for our tests automation which needs to inspect the
actors beforehand.

### Use the snactor tool for development

Using the snactor tool helps with creating the base layout of a new Leapp repository, and with creating boilerplates for
the repository artifacts like actors, models, tags, topics, and workflows. It also helps you with debugging as it is
able to execute individual actors.

See the [tutorial on basic usage of snactor](https://leapp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/first-actor.html).

### Avoid writing generic actors

Generic actors that are too abstract are usually a sign for code that should be part of the

> [Leapp Standard Library](https://leapp.readthedocs.io/en/latest/pydoc/leapp.libraries.stdlib.html) instead. The standard

Author: Done.

library helps to reduce the complexity of the system, and the amount of actors that have to be scheduled and run. We
encourage you to submit proposals through issues or pull requests for the
[leapp GitHub repository](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/).

### Discover Leapp Standard Library functions

Before implementing functionality for your actor, browse through the

> [Leapp Standard Library](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/leapp/libraries/stdlib/) as it may contain

Author: Done.

### Utilize messages produced by existing actors

As with the Leapp Standard Library mentioned above, it may be beneficial for you to skim through the actors already in
place in the [leapp-repository](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository). You might be interested in the messages they
produce, for example:
- [SystemFactsActor](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository/blob/master/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/systemfacts/actor.py) -
  information about kernel modules, yum repos, sysctl variables, users, firewall, SELinux, etc.
- [NetIfaceScanner](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository/blob/master/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/netifacescanner/actor.py) -
  network information
- [OSReleaseCollector](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository/blob/master/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/osreleasecollector/actor.py) -
  system release information
- [RpmScanner](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository/blob/master/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/rpmscanner/actor.py) -
  list of installed packages
- [StorageScanner](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository/blob/master/repos/system_upgrade/el7toel8/actors/storagescanner/actor.py) -

>   storage information

Author: Right, something like in the previous "tip" where I mention _"Improvement proposals for the library functions are welcome."_

>   storage information

Author: Done.

  [leapp-repository on GitHub](https://github.com/oamg/leapp-repository).

## Discover standard library functions

Before implementing functionality for your actor, browse through the available functionality provided by:
- the [Leapp Standard Library](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/leapp/libraries/stdlib/),
- the shared library of your Leapp repository (`<Leapp repository>/libraries` folder).

These libraries contain functions that may satisfy your needs. Using them can save you time, lower code complexity and
help avoiding duplicate code. Improvement proposals for the library functions are welcome.

## Prefer using stdlib functions over shell commands

Sources of external functionality to be used in your actor in order of preference:
1. the [Leapp Standard Library](https://github.com/oamg/leapp/tree/master/leapp/libraries/stdlib/)
2. the [Python Standard Library](https://docs.python.org/3/library/index.html)

> 3. shell commands

Reviewer 3: What about full path to the shell command - use `cp` or `/bin/cp`?

Author: I would say using full path is safer as no alias is executed instead of the expected command, and we don't need to rely on the content of PATH. On the other hand, and I'm not sure about this, the path may be different than expected when booted in the initramfs after doing some chroot/pivot magic. But that would get revealed during testing of the actor.

I'll mention it here, even though this seems more like a rather small detail IMO.
